1. Write a Java program to check if a given number is even or odd. The program should prompt the user to enter a number and then determine if it is even or odd. It should display an appropriate message indicating the result.

2. Write a Java program to check if a given year is a leap year or not. The program should ask the user to enter a year and then determine if it is a leap year. It should display a message indicating whether the year is a leap year or not. (A leap year is divisible by 4, except for years that are divisible by 100 but not by 400.)

3. Write a Java program to determine the largest among three numbers. The program should ask the user to enter three numbers and then find the largest among them. It should display the largest number as the output.

4. Write a Java program to determine if a character entered is a vowel or a consonant. The program should prompt the user to enter a character and then determine if it is a vowel or a consonant. It should display a message indicating the result. (Assume the input will be a single character.)

5. Write a Java program to determine the grade based on the percentage obtained. The program should ask the user to enter the percentage and then calculate the corresponding grade based on the following grading scale:

If the percentage is 90 or above, the grade is 'A'.
If the percentage is between 80 and 89, the grade is 'B'.
If the percentage is between 70 and 79, the grade is 'C'.
If the percentage is between 60 and 69, the grade is 'D'.
If the percentage is below 60, the grade is 'F'.
The program should display the calculated grade as the output.

6. Write a Java program to convert temperature from Celsius to Fahrenheit. The program should prompt the user to enter a temperature in Celsius, perform the conversion using the formula (celsius * 9/5) + 32, and display the equivalent temperature in Fahrenheit as "The temperature in Fahrenheit is [fahrenheit] degrees."

7. Write a Java program to calculate the factorial of a given number. The program should ask the user to enter a positive integer and calculate its factorial. It should then display the result as "The factorial of [number] is [factorial]."

8. Write a Java program to print the Fibonacci series up to a given number of terms. The program should prompt the user to enter the number of terms they want in the Fibonacci series and generate and display the series. For example, if the user enters 7, the program should output "Fibonacci series: 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8."

9. Write a Java program to check if a given number is a prime number. The program should ask the user to enter a positive integer and determine if it is prime or not. It should display a message indicating the result as "The number [number] is prime" or "The number [number] is not prime."

10. Write a Java program to find the sum of all the even numbers between 1 and a given number. The program should prompt the user to enter a number and calculate the sum of all even numbers up to that number. It should then display the result as "The sum of even numbers up to [number] is [sum]."

11. Write a Java program to reverse a given number. The program should ask the user to enter a positive integer and reverse its digits. It should then display the reversed number as "The reversed number is [reversedNumber]."

12. Write a Java program to find the factorial of all numbers from 1 to a given number. The program should prompt the user to enter a positive integer and calculate the factorial for each number from 1 up to that number. It should display the factorial for each number in the format "The factorial of [number] is [factorial]."
